# Schedule

## Week 1

### Tuesday, September 5

Teaching Fellow Tyler Holloway gives an overview of the course.

### Thursday, September 7

Professor Nada Amin talks about syntax-guided synthesis and enumerative search.

## Week 2

### Tuesday, September 12

We set the schedule for the course.

### Thursday, September 14

Guest William E. Byrd presents the following paper and leads the discussion:
- William E. Byrd, Michael Ballantyne, Gregory Rosenblatt, and Matthew Might. [_A Unified Approach to Solving Seven Programming Problems (Functional Pearl)_](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3110252&CFID=976617079), ICFP 2017 ([interactive version](https://io.livecode.ch/learn/gregr/icfp2017-artifact-auas7pp))

## Week 3

### Tuesday, September 19

Session top-down type-driven synthesis.

Kevin Zhang presents the following paper and leads the discussion:
- Peter-Michael Osera and Steve Zdancewic. [_Type-and-example-directed program synthesis_](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2813885.2738007), PLDI 2015 ([code](https://github.com/silky/myth))

### Thursday, September 21

Acer Iverson presents the following paper and leads the discussion:
- Nadia Polikarpova, Ivan Kuraj, Armando Solar-Lezama. [_Program Synthesis from Polymorphic Refinement Types_](https://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~npolikarpova/publications/pldi16.pdf), PLDI 2016 ([demo](http://comcom.csail.mit.edu/comcom/#Synquid), [code](https://github.com/nadia-polikarpova/synquid))

Shashi Gowda presents methods for dealing with large space of programs, such as e-graphs, Version Space Algebras (VSA), tree automata.
- Rosetta stone
- _FlashMeta: a framework for inductive program synthesis_ (as an application of VSA)

## Week 4

### Tuesday, September 26

Matt Kotzbauer and Sibi Raja present on library learning and lead the discussion.
- _DreamCoder_ (for motivation)
- _Top-Down Synthesis for Library Learning_
- _babble : Learning Better Abstractions with E-Graphs and Anti-Unification_

### Thursday, September 28

Azim Raheem presents the following paper, which applies tree automata:
- Anders Miltner, Adrian Trejo Nuñez, Ana Brendel, Swarat Chaudhuri, and Isil Dillig. [_Bottom-up synthesis of recursive functional programs using angelic execution_](https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3498682), POPL 2022 ([code](https://github.com/amiltner/BurstArtifactEvaluation))

We will discuss the assignments in the remaining time.

## Week 5

### Tuesday, October 3

Iñaki Arango and Ivy Liang present an introduction to transformers and its application to LLMs.

- _Attention is all your need_
- _Toolformer: Language Models Can Teach Themselves to Use Tools_
- _Program Synthesis with Large Language Models_

### Thursday, October 5

Binita Gupta and Sean Yang survey works on verification of output for LLMs:
- _Jigsaw: Large Language Models meet Program Synthesis_
- _Exploring the Verifiability of Code Generated by GitHub Copilot_
- _Training Verifiers to Solve Math Word Problems_
- _I Speak, You Verify: Toward Trustworthy Neural Program Synthesis_

## Week 6

### Tuesday, October 10

Dr. Eamon Duede presents and leads a session on Embedded Ethics.
- (Required) Bommasani, Rishi, Kathleen A. Creel, Ananya Kumar, Dan Jurafsky, and Percy S. Liang. _"Picking on the Same Person: Does Algorithmic Monoculture lead to Outcome Homogenization?."_ Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 35 (2022): 3663-3678.
- (Suggested) Muller, Michael, Steven Ross, Stephanie Houde, Mayank Agarwal, Fernando Martinez, John Richards, Kartik Talamadupula, and Justin D. Weisz. _"Drinking Chai with Your (AI) Programming Partner: A Design Fiction about Generative AI for Software Engineering."_ In HAI-GEN Workshop at IUI 2022: 3rd Workshop on Human-AI Co-Creation with Generative Models. 2022.
- (Optional) Toups, Connor, Rishi Bommasani, Kathleen A. Creel, Sarah H. Bana, Dan Jurafsky, and Percy Liang. _"Ecosystem-level Analysis of Deployed Machine Learning Reveals Homogeneous Outcomes."_ arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.05862 (2023).

### Thursday, October 12

Daniel presents an introduction to program repair and its application to robotics.
- [_CURE: Code-Aware Neural Machine Translation for Automatic Program Repair_](https://www.cs.purdue.edu/homes/lintan/publications/cure-icse21.pdf)
- [_Interactive Synthesis of Temporal Specifications from Examples and Natural Language_](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3428269)

Further readings:
- [_A Survey on Software Fault Localization_](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7390282)
- [_A Survey on Automated Program Repair Techniques_](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.18184.pdf)
- [_Program Repair_](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2211.12787.pdf)

## Week 7

### Tuesday, October 17

Raffi Sanna presents a session on Inductive Logic Programming (ILP).

### Thursday, October 19 (Assignment 1 Due)

Session to debrief on first assignment.

## Week 8

### Tuesday, October 24

Session on formal mathematics with LLMs.

Andrew Sima presents the following paper and leads the discussion.
- _Generative Language Modeling for Automated Theorem Proving_

Prof. Nada Amin presents some demo on formal verification with LLMs, if there is time.

### Thursday, October 26

Ayush Noori and Will Byrd present on applications of synthesis to biomedical domains.

Useful background: LLMs, diffusion models, GANs, reinforcement learning, ILP.

## Week 9

### Tuesday, October 31 (Assignment 2 due)

Alex Bai presents the following paper and leads the discussion:
- _Leveraging Rust Types for Program Synthesis_

In the remaining time, we will discuss the second assignment.

### Thursday, November 2

Leonard Tang presents the following paper and leads the discussion:
- _Human-level concept learning through probabilistic program induction_

## Week 10

### Tuesday, November 7

### Thursday, November 9

Guest lecture by David Bieber, likely on Zoom.
- _BUSTLE: Bottom-up program-Synthesis Through Learning-guided Exploration_
- _TF-Coder: Program Synthesis for Tensor Manipulations_
- _Show Your Work: Scratchpads for Intermediate Computation with Language Models_

## Week 11

### Tuesday, November 14

Guest lecture by Jesse Han on _"Verified program synthesis in the age of LLMs"_.

### Thursday, November 16

Chloe Loughridge presents the following paper and leads the discussion.
- Nora Kassner, Oyvind Tafjord, Ashish Sabharwal, Kyle Richardson, Hinrich Schutze, Peter Clark. [_Language Models with Rationality_](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.14250) (REFLEX)

## Week 12

### Tuesday, November 21

Buffer class.

### Thursday, November 23

Thanksgiving.

## Week 13

### Tuesday, November 28

Project presentations.

### Thursday, November 30

Project presentations.

## Week 14

### Tuesday, December 5

Project presentations.

Last day of classes.
